confluent_platform/README.md, before:

# Agent Check: Confluent Platform

## Overview

This check monitors Confluent Platform and Kafka components through the Datadog Agent.

This integration collects JMX metrics for the following components:

- Broker
- Connect
- Replicator
- Schema Registry
- SQL Server
- Streams
- REST Proxy

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

The Confluent Platform check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package, so you don't need to install anything else on your Confluent Platform component server.

The check collects metrics via JMX, so you need a JVM on each node so the Agent can run [jmxfetch][3]. It is recommend using an Oracle-provided JVM.


### Configuration

1. Edit the `confluent_platform.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Confluent Platform performance data. See the [sample confluent_platform.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

    For each component, you need to create a separate instance to collect its jmx metrics. List of default metrics collected are listed in [`metrics.yaml` file][9]. For example:

    ```yaml
    instances:
     - host: localhost
       port: 8686
       name: broker_instance
       user: username
       password: password
     - host: localhost
       port: 8687
       name: schema_registry_instance
     - host: localhost
       port: 8688
       name: rest_proxy_instance
    ```

2. [Restart the Agent][5].

#### Containerized

##### Metric collection

For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery with JMX][10] guide.

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `confluent_platform` under the **JMXFetch** section.

```
    ========
    JMXFetch
    ========

      Initialized checks
      ==================
        confluent_platform
          instance_name : confluent_platform-localhost-31006
          message :
          metric_count : 26
          service_check_count : 0
          status : OK
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Service Checks

Confluent Platform does not include any service checks.

### Events

Confluent Platform does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][8].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/integrations
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/jmxfetch
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/datadog_checks/confluent_platform/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/metadata.csv
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help
[9]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/datadog_checks/confluent_platform/data/metrics.yaml
[10]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/autodiscovery-with-jmx/?tab=containerizedagent

Commit message:

Add service check to readme

confluent_platform/README.md, after:

# Agent Check: Confluent Platform

## Overview

This check monitors Confluent Platform and Kafka components through the Datadog Agent.

This integration collects JMX metrics for the following components:

- Broker
- Connect
- Replicator
- Schema Registry
- SQL Server
- Streams
- REST Proxy

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

The Confluent Platform check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package, so you don't need to install anything else on your Confluent Platform component server.

The check collects metrics via JMX, so you need a JVM on each node so the Agent can run [jmxfetch][3]. It is recommend using an Oracle-provided JVM.


### Configuration

1. Edit the `confluent_platform.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your Agent's configuration directory to start collecting your Confluent Platform performance data. See the [sample confluent_platform.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

    For each component, you need to create a separate instance to collect its jmx metrics. List of default metrics collected are listed in [`metrics.yaml` file][9]. For example:

    ```yaml
    instances:
     - host: localhost
       port: 8686
       name: broker_instance
       user: username
       password: password
     - host: localhost
       port: 8687
       name: schema_registry_instance
     - host: localhost
       port: 8688
       name: rest_proxy_instance
    ```

2. [Restart the Agent][5].

#### Containerized

##### Metric collection

For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery with JMX][10] guide.

### Validation

[Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `confluent_platform` under the **JMXFetch** section.

```
    ========
    JMXFetch
    ========

      Initialized checks
      ==================
        confluent_platform
          instance_name : confluent_platform-localhost-31006
          message :
          metric_count : 26
          service_check_count : 0
          status : OK
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Service Checks

**confluentplatform.can_connect**:<br>
Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent is unable to connect to and collect metrics from the monitored Confluent Platform / Kafka component, otherwise returns `OK`.

### Events

Confluent Platform does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][8].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/integrations
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/jmxfetch
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/datadog_checks/confluent_platform/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/metadata.csv
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help
[9]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/confluent_platform/datadog_checks/confluent_platform/data/metrics.yaml
[10]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/autodiscovery-with-jmx/?tab=containerizedagent
