eks_fargate/README.md, before:

# Agent Check: eks_fargate

## Overview

Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate is a managed Kubernetes service that automates certain aspects of deployment and maintenance for any standard Kubernetes environment. Kubernetes nodes are managed by AWS Fargate and abstracted away from the user.

## Setup

These steps cover the setup of the Datadog Agent v7.17+ in a container within Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate. Refer to the [Datadog-Amazon EKS integration documentation][1] if you are not using AWS Fargate.

AWS Fargate pods are not physical pods, which means they exclude [host-based system-checks][2], like CPU, memory, etc. In order to collect data from your AWS Fargate pods, you must run the Agent as a sidecar of your application pod with custom RBAC, which enables these features:

- Kubernetes metrics collection from the pod running your application containers and the Agent
- [Autodiscovery][3]
- Configuration of custom Agent Checks to target containers in the same pod
- APM and DogStatsD for containers in the same pod

### EC2 Node

If you don't specify through [AWS Fargate Profile][4] that your pods should run on fargate, your pods can use classical EC2 machines. If it's the case refer to the [Datadog-Amazon EKS integration setup][5] in order to collect data from your them. This works by running the Agent as an EC2-type workload. The Agent setup is the same as that of the [Kuberenetes Agent setup][6], and all options are available. To deploy the Agent on EC2 nodes, use the [DaemonSet setup for the Datadog Agent][7].

### Installation

To get the best observability coverage monitoring workloads in AWS EKS Fargate, install the Datadog integrations for:

- [Kubernetes][8]
- [AWS][9]
- [EKS][10]
- [EC2][11] (if you are running an EC2-type node)

Also, set up integrations for any other AWS services you are running with EKS (for example, [ELB][12]).

#### Manual Installation

To install, download the custom Agent image: `datadog/agent` with version v7.17 or above.

If the Agent is running as a sidecar, it can communicate only with containers on the same pod. Run an Agent for every pod you wish to monitor.

### Configuration

To collect data from your applications running in AWS EKS Fargate over a Fargate node, follow these setup steps:

- [Set up AWS EKS Fargate RBAC rules](#aws-eks-fargate-rbac).
- [Deploy the Agent as a sidecar](#running-the-agent-as-a-side-car).
- Set up Datadog [metrics](#metrics-collection), [events](#events-collection), and [traces](#traces-collection) collection.

#### AWS EKS Fargate RBAC

Use the following Agent RBAC when deploying the Agent as a sidecar in AWS EKS Fargate:

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - nodes/metrics
      - nodes/spec
      - nodes/stats
      - nodes/proxy
      - nodes/pods
      - nodes/healthz
    verbs:
      - get
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: datadog-agent
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: datadog-agent
    namespace: default
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
  namespace: default
```

#### Running the Agent as a sidecar

To start collecting data from your Fargate type pod, deploy the Datadog Agent v7.17+ as a sidecar of your application. This is the minimum configuration required to collect metrics from your application running in the pod, notice the adition of `DD_EKS_FARGATE=true` in the manifest to deploy your Datadog Agent sidecar.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Metrics Collection

### Integration metrics

Use [Autodiscovery labels with your application container][14] to start collecting its metrics for the [supported Agent integrations][15].

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
     annotations:
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_NAME>.check_names: '[<CHECK_NAME>]'
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_IDENTIFIER>.init_configs: '[<INIT_CONFIG>]'
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_IDENTIFIER>.instances: '[<INSTANCE_CONFIG>]'
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

### DogStatsD

Set up the container port `8125` over your Agent container to forward [DogStatsD metrics][16] from your application container to Datadog.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       ## Enabling port 8125 for DogStatsD metric collection
       ports:
        - containerPort: 8125
          name: dogstatsdport
          protocol: UDP
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Traces Collection

Set up the container port `8126` over your Agent container to collect traces from your application container. [Read more about how to set up tracing][17].

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       ## Enabling port 8126 for Trace collection
       ports:
        - containerPort: 8126
          name: traceport
          protocol: TCP
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_APM_ENABLED
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Events Collection

To collect events from your AWS EKS Fargate API server, run a Datadog Cluster Agent over an AWS EKS EC2 pod within your Kubernetes cluster:

1. [Setup the Datadog Cluster Agent][18].
2. [Enable Event collection for your Cluster Agent][19].

Optionally, deploy cluster check runners in addition to setting up the Datadog Cluster Agent to enable cluster checks.

**Note**: You can also collect events if you run the Datadog Cluster Agent in a pod in Fargate.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

The eks_fargate check submits a heartbeat metric `eks.fargate.pods.running` that is tagged by `pod_name` and `virtual_node` so you can keep track of how many pods are running.

### Service Checks

eks_fargate does not include any service checks.

### Events

eks_fargate does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][20].

[1]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//integrations/amazon_eks/
[2]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//integrations/system
[3]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//agent/autodiscovery
[4]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/fargate-profile.html
[5]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/amazon_eks/#setup
[6]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes
[7]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/daemonset_setup
[8]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/kubernetes
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-web-services
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-eks
[11]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-ec2
[12]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/kubernetes
[13]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
[14]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/integrations
[15]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-autodiscovery
[16]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd
[17]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup
[18]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/cluster_agent/setup
[19]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/cluster_agent/event_collection
[20]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help

Commit message:

[DOCS-690] Adding disclaimer for container metrics (#6045)
* adding disclaimer for container metrics

* wording update

eks_fargate/README.md, after:

# Agent Check: eks_fargate

## Overview

Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate is a managed Kubernetes service that automates certain aspects of deployment and maintenance for any standard Kubernetes environment. Kubernetes nodes are managed by AWS Fargate and abstracted away from the user.

## Setup

These steps cover the setup of the Datadog Agent v7.17+ in a container within Amazon EKS on AWS Fargate. Refer to the [Datadog-Amazon EKS integration documentation][1] if you are not using AWS Fargate.

AWS Fargate pods are not physical pods, which means they exclude [host-based system-checks][2], like CPU, memory, etc. In order to collect data from your AWS Fargate pods, you must run the Agent as a sidecar of your application pod with custom RBAC, which enables these features:

- Kubernetes metrics collection from the pod running your application containers and the Agent
- [Autodiscovery][3]
- Configuration of custom Agent Checks to target containers in the same pod
- APM and DogStatsD for containers in the same pod

### EC2 Node

If you don't specify through [AWS Fargate Profile][4] that your pods should run on fargate, your pods can use classical EC2 machines. If it's the case refer to the [Datadog-Amazon EKS integration setup][5] in order to collect data from your them. This works by running the Agent as an EC2-type workload. The Agent setup is the same as that of the [Kuberenetes Agent setup][6], and all options are available. To deploy the Agent on EC2 nodes, use the [DaemonSet setup for the Datadog Agent][7].

### Installation

To get the best observability coverage monitoring workloads in AWS EKS Fargate, install the Datadog integrations for:

- [Kubernetes][8]
- [AWS][9]
- [EKS][10]
- [EC2][11] (if you are running an EC2-type node)

Also, set up integrations for any other AWS services you are running with EKS (for example, [ELB][12]).

#### Manual Installation

To install, download the custom Agent image: `datadog/agent` with version v7.17 or above.

If the Agent is running as a sidecar, it can communicate only with containers on the same pod. Run an Agent for every pod you wish to monitor.

### Configuration

To collect data from your applications running in AWS EKS Fargate over a Fargate node, follow these setup steps:

- [Set up AWS EKS Fargate RBAC rules](#aws-eks-fargate-rbac).
- [Deploy the Agent as a sidecar](#running-the-agent-as-a-side-car).
- Set up Datadog [metrics](#metrics-collection), [events](#events-collection), and [traces](#traces-collection) collection.

#### AWS EKS Fargate RBAC

Use the following Agent RBAC when deploying the Agent as a sidecar in AWS EKS Fargate:

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - nodes/metrics
      - nodes/spec
      - nodes/stats
      - nodes/proxy
      - nodes/pods
      - nodes/healthz
    verbs:
      - get
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: datadog-agent
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: datadog-agent
    namespace: default
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: datadog-agent
  namespace: default
```

#### Running the Agent as a sidecar

To start collecting data from your Fargate type pod, deploy the Datadog Agent v7.17+ as a sidecar of your application. This is the minimum configuration required to collect metrics from your application running in the pod, notice the adition of `DD_EKS_FARGATE=true` in the manifest to deploy your Datadog Agent sidecar.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Metrics Collection

### Integration metrics

Use [Autodiscovery labels with your application container][14] to start collecting its metrics for the [supported Agent integrations][15].

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
     annotations:
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_NAME>.check_names: '[<CHECK_NAME>]'
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_IDENTIFIER>.init_configs: '[<INIT_CONFIG>]'
      ad.datadoghq.com/<CONTAINER_IDENTIFIER>.instances: '[<INSTANCE_CONFIG>]'
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Notes**:

- Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].
- Container metrics are not available in Fargate because the `cgroups` volume from the host can't be mounted into the Agent.

### DogStatsD

Set up the container port `8125` over your Agent container to forward [DogStatsD metrics][16] from your application container to Datadog.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       ## Enabling port 8125 for DogStatsD metric collection
       ports:
        - containerPort: 8125
          name: dogstatsdport
          protocol: UDP
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Traces Collection

Set up the container port `8126` over your Agent container to collect traces from your application container. [Read more about how to set up tracing][17].

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
 name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
 namespace: default
spec:
 replicas: 1
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
     name: "<POD_NAME>"
   spec:
     serviceAccountName: datadog-agent
     containers:
     - name: "<APPLICATION_NAME>"
       image: "<APPLICATION_IMAGE>"
     ## Running the Agent as a side-car
     - image: datadog/agent
       name: datadog-agent
       ## Enabling port 8126 for Trace collection
       ports:
        - containerPort: 8126
          name: traceport
          protocol: TCP
       env:
       - name: DD_API_KEY
         value: "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>"
         ## Set DD_SITE to "datadoghq.eu" to send your
         ## Agent data to the Datadog EU site
       - name: DD_SITE
         value: "datadoghq.com"
       - name: DD_EKS_FARGATE
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_APM_ENABLED
         value: "true"
       - name: DD_KUBERNETES_KUBELET_NODENAME
         valueFrom:
           fieldRef:
             apiVersion: v1
             fieldPath: spec.nodeName
      resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
          limits:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "200m"
```

**Note**: Don't forget to replace `<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the [Datadog API key from your organization][13].

## Events Collection

To collect events from your AWS EKS Fargate API server, run a Datadog Cluster Agent over an AWS EKS EC2 pod within your Kubernetes cluster:

1. [Setup the Datadog Cluster Agent][18].
2. [Enable Event collection for your Cluster Agent][19].

Optionally, deploy cluster check runners in addition to setting up the Datadog Cluster Agent to enable cluster checks.

**Note**: You can also collect events if you run the Datadog Cluster Agent in a pod in Fargate.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

The eks_fargate check submits a heartbeat metric `eks.fargate.pods.running` that is tagged by `pod_name` and `virtual_node` so you can keep track of how many pods are running.

### Service Checks

eks_fargate does not include any service checks.

### Events

eks_fargate does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][20].

[1]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//integrations/amazon_eks/
[2]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//integrations/system
[3]: http://docs.datadoghq.com//agent/autodiscovery
[4]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/fargate-profile.html
[5]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/amazon_eks/#setup
[6]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes
[7]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/daemonset_setup
[8]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/kubernetes
[9]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-web-services
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-eks
[11]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#integrations/amazon-ec2
[12]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/kubernetes
[13]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api
[14]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/integrations
[15]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/#cat-autodiscovery
[16]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/dogstatsd
[17]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup
[18]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/cluster_agent/setup
[19]: http://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/cluster_agent/event_collection
[20]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help
