# Docusign

## Overview

[Docusign][1] is a digital transaction management service that provides electronic signature technology, allowing users to sign, send, and manage documents securely online. It streamlines the agreement process, making it faster and more efficient by eliminating the need for physical paperwork and in-person signing.

Docusign integration provides real-time insights into Docusign activities, such as envelope usage, template management, account events, and alerts generated by users.

## Setup

### Configuration

#### Prerequisites

- Docusign Developer Account, Account Type, Docusign Account Name, UserID, Integration Key, RSA Private Key (Refer to the [steps][2] below)
- A Docusign account with a plan that includes Docusign Monitor

#### Steps to get Account Type, Docusign Account Name, User ID, Integration Key & RSA Private Key

For first-time setup:

1. Go to the [Developer Center][3] and select **Developer Account**.
2. Choose **Create Account**.
3. For the first-time setup, the Account Type will be `Developer`.
4. Navigate to the [Developer Admin Console][4].
5. Click on **Account Profile** under the **Account** section.
6. Copy the Docusign account name from **Account Name** section.
7. Click on **Apps and Keys** under the **Integrations** section.
8. From the **My Account Information** section, copy the **User ID**.
9. Click **Add App and Integration Key**.
10. Provide an app name and create the app.
11. Copy the generated **Integration Key**, under the General Info section.
12. Scroll to the Service Integration section, click on **Generate RSA**.
13. Copy only the **RSA Private Key** to a safe location (it won't be displayed again).
14. In the Additional settings section, under Redirect URIs, click "Add URI".
15. Add the URI: `http://localhost/` and Click **Save**.

For Production:

1. Ensure you have completed the [go-live][5] steps.
2. For the production account setup, the Account Type will be `Production`.
3. Navigate to the [Admin Console][6].
4. Click on **Account Profile** under the **Account** section.
5. Copy the Docusign account name from **Account Name** section.
6. Click on **Apps and Keys** under the **Integrations** section.
7. Select the app that has been duplicated from your developer account.
8. Copy the generated **Integration Key**, under the General Info section.
9. Scroll to the Service Integration section, click on **Generate RSA**.
10. Copy only the **RSA Private Key** to a safe location (it won't be displayed again).
11. In the Additional settings section, under Redirect URIs, click "Add URI".
12. Add the URI: `http://localhost/` and Click **Save**.

#### Steps to Obtain JWT Consent

1. Construct Consent URI:
   - **Syntax:**`<BASE_URI>/oauth/auth?response_type=code&scope=signature impersonation organization_read&client_id=<YOUR_INTEGRATION_KEY>&redirect_uri=<YOUR_REDIRECT_URI>`
   - **Replace Placeholders:**
     - `<BASE_URI>`:
       1. Replace with `https://account-d.docusign.com` for Developer Account
       2. Replace with `https://account.docusign.com` for Production Account
     - `<YOUR_INTEGRATION_KEY>`: Replace with your Integration Key (Client ID) obtained previously.
     - `<YOUR_REDIRECT_URI>`: Replace with your redirect URI, e.g., `http://localhost/`.
2. Open the constructed URI in an embedded browser.
3. The user will be prompted to log in to their Docusign account (if not already logged in) and grant consent for your application to impersonate them with the specified scopes.
4. After consent is granted, Docusign will redirect the user's browser to your specified redirect URI with extra information in the URL, indicating successful consent without needing to use the extra parameters directly.

- **Note:** For a localhost URI, the redirect will occur on the same page.

**Note:**

- The impersonated user must be a Docusign administrator or have the Security Reports Administrator permissions profile. For information about permission profiles, see the section [Docusign Administrator Permission Profiles][7] in the Organization Administrators topic.
- To ingest data from a production account, complete the Docusign go-live process. After the go-live process, follow the above [steps][2] to generate new configuration information for your production account.(Reference: [Docusign Go-Live][5])

### Docusign Datadog Integration Configuration

1. Navigate to `Docusign`
2. Add you Docusign credentials

| Docusign Parameters   | Type        | Description |
| --------------------- | ----------- |------------ |
| Account Type          | DropDown    | Dropdown to select between different types of Docusign accounts (i.e, Developer & Production) |
| Docusign Account Name | String      | The name associated with the Docusign account (case sensitive) |
| User Id               | String      | A GUID value that uniquely identifies a Docusign user |
| Integration Key       | String      | A unique GUID that identifies a DocuSign integration |
| RSA Private Key       | String      | A cryptographic key for signing JWT tokens for secure API authentication |

## Data Collected

### Logs 

The Docusign integration collects logs and forwards to Datadog.

### Metrics

The Docusign integration does not include any metrics.

### Events

The Docusign integration does not include any events.

## Support

For further assistance, contact [Datadog Support][8].

[1]: https://www.docusign.com/
[2]: #steps-to-get-account-type-docusign-account-name-user-id-integration-key--rsa-private-key
[3]: https://developers.docusign.com/
[4]: https://apps-d.docusign.com/admin/admin-dashboard
[5]: https://developers.docusign.com/platform/go-live/
[6]: https://apps.docusign.com/admin/admin-dashboard
[7]: https://support.docusign.com/s/document-item?bundleId=rrf1583359212854&topicId=god1583359152535.html
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/