istio/README.md, before:

# Istio check

## Overview

Use the Datadog Agent to monitor how well Istio is performing.

- Collect metrics on what apps are making what kinds of requests
- Look at how applications are using bandwidth
- Understand Istio's resource consumption

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

Istio is included in the Datadog Agent. [Install the Datadog Agent][2] on your Istio servers or in your cluster and point it at Istio.

### Configuration

Edit the `istio.d/conf.yaml` file (in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3]) to connect to Istio. See the [sample istio.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

#### Metric Collection

Add this configuration block to your `istio.d/conf.yaml` file to start gathering your Istio Metrics:

```yaml
init_config:

instances:
  - istio_mesh_endpoint: http://istio-telemetry.istio-system:42422/metrics
    mixer_endpoint: http://istio-telemetry.istio-system:15014/metrics
    galley_endpoint: http://istio-galley.istio-system:15014/metrics
    pilot_endpoint: http://istio-pilot.istio-system:15014/metrics
    citadel_endpoint: http://istio-citadel.istio-system:15014/metrics
    send_histograms_buckets: true
```

Each of the endpoints is optional, but at least one must be configured. See the [Istio documentation][5] to learn more about the Prometheus adapter.

##### Disable sidecar injection

If you are installing the [Datadog Agent in a container][10], Datadog recommends that you first disable Istio's sidecar injection.

Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "false"` annotation to the `datadog-agent` DaemonSet:

```yaml
...
spec:
   ...
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        sidecar.istio.io/inject: "false"
     ...
```

This can also be done with the `kubectl patch` command.

```text
kubectl patch daemonset datadog-agent -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"sidecar.istio.io/inject":"false"}}}}}'
```

#### Log collection

Istio contains two types of logs. Envoy access logs that are collected with the [Envoy integration][12] and [Istio logs][11].

_Available for Agent versions >6.0_

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in your [daemonset configuration][4]:

   ```yaml
       (...)
       env:
         # (...)
         - name: DD_LOGS_ENABLED
             value: "true"
         - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_CONTAINER_COLLECT_ALL
             value: "true"
     # (...)
   ```

2. Make sure that the Docker socket is mounted to the Datadog Agent as done in [this manifest][5] or mount the `/var/log/pods` directory if you are not using docker.

3. [Restart the Agent][13].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's `info` subcommand][6] and look for `istio` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Events

The Istio check does not include any events.

### Service Checks

The Istio check does not include any service checks.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][8].

## Further Reading

Additional helpful documentation, links, and articles:

- [Monitor your Istio service mesh with Datadog][9]
- [Learn how Datadog collects key metrics to monitor Istio][14]

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/integrations
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/istio/datadog_checks/istio/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/querying-metrics
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/istio/metadata.csv
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help
[9]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-istio-with-datadog
[10]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes
[11]: https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/logs/collecting-logs/
[12]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/envoy/#log-collection
[13]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[14]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/istio-metrics/

Commit message:

Add service checks to readme

istio/README.md, after:

# Istio check

## Overview

Use the Datadog Agent to monitor how well Istio is performing.

- Collect metrics on what apps are making what kinds of requests
- Look at how applications are using bandwidth
- Understand Istio's resource consumption

## Setup

Follow the instructions below to install and configure this check for an Agent running on a host. For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] for guidance on applying these instructions.

### Installation

Istio is included in the Datadog Agent. [Install the Datadog Agent][2] on your Istio servers or in your cluster and point it at Istio.

### Configuration

Edit the `istio.d/conf.yaml` file (in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3]) to connect to Istio. See the [sample istio.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

#### Metric Collection

Add this configuration block to your `istio.d/conf.yaml` file to start gathering your Istio Metrics:

```yaml
init_config:

instances:
  - istio_mesh_endpoint: http://istio-telemetry.istio-system:42422/metrics
    mixer_endpoint: http://istio-telemetry.istio-system:15014/metrics
    galley_endpoint: http://istio-galley.istio-system:15014/metrics
    pilot_endpoint: http://istio-pilot.istio-system:15014/metrics
    citadel_endpoint: http://istio-citadel.istio-system:15014/metrics
    send_histograms_buckets: true
```

Each of the endpoints is optional, but at least one must be configured. See the [Istio documentation][5] to learn more about the Prometheus adapter.

##### Disable sidecar injection

If you are installing the [Datadog Agent in a container][10], Datadog recommends that you first disable Istio's sidecar injection.

Add the `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "false"` annotation to the `datadog-agent` DaemonSet:

```yaml
...
spec:
   ...
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        sidecar.istio.io/inject: "false"
     ...
```

This can also be done with the `kubectl patch` command.

```text
kubectl patch daemonset datadog-agent -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"sidecar.istio.io/inject":"false"}}}}}'
```

#### Log collection

Istio contains two types of logs. Envoy access logs that are collected with the [Envoy integration][12] and [Istio logs][11].

_Available for Agent versions >6.0_

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in your [daemonset configuration][4]:

   ```yaml
       (...)
       env:
         # (...)
         - name: DD_LOGS_ENABLED
             value: "true"
         - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_CONTAINER_COLLECT_ALL
             value: "true"
     # (...)
   ```

2. Make sure that the Docker socket is mounted to the Datadog Agent as done in [this manifest][5] or mount the `/var/log/pods` directory if you are not using docker.

3. [Restart the Agent][13].

### Validation

[Run the Agent's `info` subcommand][6] and look for `istio` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this check.

### Events

The Istio check does not include any events.

### Service Checks

For Istio versions `1.5` or higher:
`istio.prometheus.health`: Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent cannot reach the metrics endpoints, `OK` otherwise.

For Istio all other versions:
`istio.pilot.prometheus.health`: Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent cannot reach the metrics endpoints, `OK` otherwise.
`istio.galley.prometheus.health`: Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent cannot reach the metrics endpoints, `OK` otherwise.
`istio.citadel.prometheus.health`: Returns `CRITICAL` if the Agent cannot reach the metrics endpoints, `OK` otherwise.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][8].

## Further Reading

Additional helpful documentation, links, and articles:

- [Monitor your Istio service mesh with Datadog][9]
- [Learn how Datadog collects key metrics to monitor Istio][14]

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes/integrations
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/istio/datadog_checks/istio/data/conf.yaml.example
[5]: https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics/querying-metrics
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/istio/metadata.csv
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help
[9]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-istio-with-datadog
[10]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/kubernetes
[11]: https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/logs/collecting-logs/
[12]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/envoy/#log-collection
[13]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[14]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/istio-metrics/
