docs/developer/tutorials/snmp/profile-format.md, before:

# Profile Format Reference

## Overview

SNMP profiles are our way of providing out-of-the-box monitoring for certain makes and models of network devices.

An SNMP profile is materialised as a YAML file with the following structure:

```yaml
sysobjectid: <x.y.z...>

# extends:
#   <Optional list of base profiles to extend from...>

metrics:
  # <List of metrics to collect...>

# metric_tags:
#   <Optional list of tags to apply to collected metrics>
```

## Fields

### `sysobjectid`

_(Required)_

The `sysobjectid` field is used to match profiles against devices during device autodiscovery.

It can refer to a fully-defined OID for a specific device make and model:

```yaml
sysobjectid: 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10
```

or a wildcard pattern to address multiple device models:

```yaml
sysobjectid: 1.3.6.1.131.12.4.*
```

### `extends`

_(Optional)_

This field can be used to include metrics and metric tags from other so-called _base profiles_. Base profiles can derive from other base profiles to build a hierarchy of reusable profile mixins.

!!! important
    All device profiles should extend from the `_base.yaml` profile, which defines items that should be collected for all devices.

Example:

```yaml
extends:
  - _base.yaml
  - _generic-router-if.yaml  # Include basic metrics from IF-MIB.
```

### `metrics`

_(Required)_

Entries in the `metrics` field define which metrics will be collected by the profile. They can reference either a single OID (a.k.a _symbol_), or an SNMP table.

#### Symbol metrics

An SNMP symbol is an object with a scalar type (i.e. `Counter32`, `Integer32`, `OctetString`, etc).

In a MIB file, a symbol can be recognized as an `OBJECT-TYPE` node with a scalar `SYNTAX`, placed under an `OBJECT IDENTIFIER` node (which is often the root OID of the MIB):

```asn
EXAMPLE-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN
-- ...
example OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 7 }

exampleSymbol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    -- ...
    ::= { example 1 }
```

In profiles, symbol metrics can be specified as entries that specify the `MIB` and `symbol` fields:

```yaml
metrics:
  # Example for the above dummy MIB and symbol:
  - MIB: EXAMPLE-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.5.1.2.1.7.1
      name: exampleSymbol
  # More realistic examples:
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.1.2
      name: clusterHealth
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.1
      name: clusterIfsInBytes
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.3
      name: clusterIfsOutBytes
```

!!! warning
    Symbol metrics from the same `MIB` must still be listed as separate `metrics` entries, as shown above.

    For example, this is _not_ valid syntax:

    ```yaml
    metrics:
      - MIB: ISILON-MIB
        symbol:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.1
            name: clusterIfsInBytes
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.3
            name: clusterIfsOutBytes
    ```

#### Table metrics

An SNMP table is an object that is composed of multiple entries ("rows"), where each entry contains values a set of symbols ("columns").

In a MIB file, tables be recognized by the presence of `SEQUENCE OF`:

```asn
exampleTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF exampleEntry
    -- ...
    ::= { example 10 }

exampleEntry OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleTable 1 }

exampleColumn1 OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleEntry 1 }

exampleColumn2 OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleEntry 2 }

-- ...
```

In profiles, tables can be specified as entries containing the `MIB`, `table` and `symbols` fields:

```yaml
metrics:
  # Example for the dummy table above:
  - MIB: EXAMPLE-MIB
    table:
      # Identification of the table which metrics come from.
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10
      name: exampleTable
    symbols:
      # List of symbols ('columns') to retrieve.
      # Same format as for a single OID.
      # Each row in the table will emit these metrics.
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10.1.1
        name: exampleColumn1
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10.1.2
        name: exampleColumn2
      # ...

  # More realistic example:
  - MIB: CISCO-PROCESS-MIB
    table:
      # Each row in this table contains information about a CPU unit of the device.
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1
      name: cpmCPUTotalTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1.1.12
        name: cpmCPUMemoryUsed
      # ...
```

#### Table metrics tagging

It is possible to add tags to metrics retrieved from a table in three ways:

- Using an index:

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: CISCO-PROCESS-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1
      name: cpmCPUTotalTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1.1.12
        name: cpmCPUMemoryUsed
    metric_tags:
      # Add a 'cpu:<row_index>' tag to each metric of each row,
      # whose value is the index of the row in the table.
      # This allows querying metrics for a given CPU unit, e.g. 'cpu:1'.
      - tag: cpu
        index: 1
```

- Using a column within the same table:

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: IF-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2
      name: ifTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14
        name: ifInErrors
      # ...
    metric_tags:
      # Add an 'interface' tag to each metric of each row,
      # whose value is obtained from the 'ifDescr' column of the row.
      # This allows querying metrics by interface, e.g. 'interface:eth0'.
      - tag: interface
        column:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.2
          name: ifDescr
```

- Using a column from a different table.

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: CISCO-IF-EXTENSION-MIB
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.276.1.1.2
      name: cieIfInterfaceTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.276.1.1.2.1.1
        name: cieIfResetCount
    metric_tags:
      - MIB: IF-MIB
        column:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.1
          name: ifName
        table: ifXTable
        tag: interface
```

#### Metric type inference

By default, the [Datadog metric type](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/types/?tab=count) of a symbol will be inferred from the SNMP type (i.e. the MIB `SYNTAX`):

| SNMP type             | Inferred metric type |
| --------------------- | -------------------- |
| `Counter32`           | `rate`               |
| `Counter64`           | `rate`               |
| `Gauge32`             | `gauge`              |
| `Integer`             | `gauge`              |
| `Integer32`           | `gauge`              |
| `CounterBasedGauge64` | `gauge`              |
| `Opaque`              | `gauge`              |

SNMP types not listed in this table are submitted as `gauge` by default.

#### Forced metric types

Sometimes the inferred type may not be what you want. Typically, OIDs that represent "total number of X" are defined as `Counter32` in MIBs, but you probably want to submit them `monotonic_count` instead of a `rate`.

For such cases, you can define a `forced_type`. Possible values and their effect are listed below.

| Forced type                | Description                                                                                         |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `gauge`                    | Submit as a gauge.                                                                                  |
| `rate`                     | Submit as a rate.                                                                                   |
| `percent`                  | Multiply by 100 and submit as a rate.                                                               |
| `monotonic_count`          | Submit as a monotonic count.                                                                        |
| `monotonic_count_and_rate` | Submit 2 copies of the metric: one as a monotonic count, and one as a rate (suffixed with `.rate`). |

This works on both symbol and table metrics:

```yaml
metrics:
  # On a symbol:
  - MIB: TCP-MIB
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.6.5
      name: tcpActiveOpens
  # On a table:
  - MIB: IP-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1
      name: ipSystemStatsTable
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    symbols:
    - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1.1.4
      name: ipSystemStatsHCInReceives
    - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1.1.6
      name: ipSystemStatsHCInOctets
```

!!! note
    When used on a table metrics entry, `forced_type` is applied to _all_ symbols in the entry.

    So, if a table contains symbols of varying types, you should use multiple `metrics` entries: one for symbols with inferred metric types, and one for each `forced_type`.

    For example:

    ```yaml
    metrics:
      - MIB: F5-BIGIP-LOCAL-MIB
        table:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3
          name: ltmPoolStatTable
        # No `forced_type` specified => metric types will be inferred.
        symbols:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.2
            name: ltmPoolStatServerPktsIn
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.4
            name: ltmPoolStatServerPktsOut
          # ...

      - MIB: F5-BIGIP-LOCAL-MIB
        table:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3
          name: ltmPoolStatTable
        forced_type: monotonic_count
        # All these symbols will be submitted as monotonic counts.
        symbols:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.7
            name: ltmPoolStatServerTotConns
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.23
            name: ltmPoolStatConnqServiced
          # ...
    ```

### `metric_tags`

_(Optional)_

This field is used to apply tags to all metrics collected by the profile. It has the same meaning than the instance-level config option (see [`conf.yaml.example`](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/conf.yaml.example)).

Several collection methods are supported, as illustrated below:

```yaml
metric_tags:
  - # From a symbol
    MIB: SNMPv2-MIB
    symbol: sysName
    tag: snmp_host
  - # From an OID:
    OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.1.5
    symbol: sysName
    tag: snmp_host
  - # With regular expression matching
    MIB: SNMPv2-MIB
    symbol: sysName
    match: (.*)-(.*)
    tags:
        device_type: \1
        host: \2
```

Commit message:

Add note on choosing tag sources

docs/developer/tutorials/snmp/profile-format.md, after:

# Profile Format Reference

## Overview

SNMP profiles are our way of providing out-of-the-box monitoring for certain makes and models of network devices.

An SNMP profile is materialised as a YAML file with the following structure:

```yaml
sysobjectid: <x.y.z...>

# extends:
#   <Optional list of base profiles to extend from...>

metrics:
  # <List of metrics to collect...>

# metric_tags:
#   <Optional list of tags to apply to collected metrics>
```

## Fields

### `sysobjectid`

_(Required)_

The `sysobjectid` field is used to match profiles against devices during device autodiscovery.

It can refer to a fully-defined OID for a specific device make and model:

```yaml
sysobjectid: 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10
```

or a wildcard pattern to address multiple device models:

```yaml
sysobjectid: 1.3.6.1.131.12.4.*
```

### `extends`

_(Optional)_

This field can be used to include metrics and metric tags from other so-called _base profiles_. Base profiles can derive from other base profiles to build a hierarchy of reusable profile mixins.

!!! important
    All device profiles should extend from the `_base.yaml` profile, which defines items that should be collected for all devices.

Example:

```yaml
extends:
  - _base.yaml
  - _generic-router-if.yaml  # Include basic metrics from IF-MIB.
```

### `metrics`

_(Required)_

Entries in the `metrics` field define which metrics will be collected by the profile. They can reference either a single OID (a.k.a _symbol_), or an SNMP table.

#### Symbol metrics

An SNMP symbol is an object with a scalar type (i.e. `Counter32`, `Integer32`, `OctetString`, etc).

In a MIB file, a symbol can be recognized as an `OBJECT-TYPE` node with a scalar `SYNTAX`, placed under an `OBJECT IDENTIFIER` node (which is often the root OID of the MIB):

```asn
EXAMPLE-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN
-- ...
example OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 7 }

exampleSymbol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    -- ...
    ::= { example 1 }
```

In profiles, symbol metrics can be specified as entries that specify the `MIB` and `symbol` fields:

```yaml
metrics:
  # Example for the above dummy MIB and symbol:
  - MIB: EXAMPLE-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.5.1.2.1.7.1
      name: exampleSymbol
  # More realistic examples:
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.1.2
      name: clusterHealth
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.1
      name: clusterIfsInBytes
  - MIB: ISILON-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.3
      name: clusterIfsOutBytes
```

!!! warning
    Symbol metrics from the same `MIB` must still be listed as separate `metrics` entries, as shown above.

    For example, this is _not_ valid syntax:

    ```yaml
    metrics:
      - MIB: ISILON-MIB
        symbol:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.1
            name: clusterIfsInBytes
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.12124.1.2.1.3
            name: clusterIfsOutBytes
    ```

#### Table metrics

An SNMP table is an object that is composed of multiple entries ("rows"), where each entry contains values a set of symbols ("columns").

In a MIB file, tables be recognized by the presence of `SEQUENCE OF`:

```asn
exampleTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF exampleEntry
    -- ...
    ::= { example 10 }

exampleEntry OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleTable 1 }

exampleColumn1 OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleEntry 1 }

exampleColumn2 OBJECT-TYPE
   -- ...
   ::= { exampleEntry 2 }

-- ...
```

In profiles, tables can be specified as entries containing the `MIB`, `table` and `symbols` fields:

```yaml
metrics:
  # Example for the dummy table above:
  - MIB: EXAMPLE-MIB
    table:
      # Identification of the table which metrics come from.
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10
      name: exampleTable
    symbols:
      # List of symbols ('columns') to retrieve.
      # Same format as for a single OID.
      # Each row in the table will emit these metrics.
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10.1.1
        name: exampleColumn1
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.10.1.2
        name: exampleColumn2
      # ...

  # More realistic example:
  - MIB: CISCO-PROCESS-MIB
    table:
      # Each row in this table contains information about a CPU unit of the device.
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1
      name: cpmCPUTotalTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1.1.12
        name: cpmCPUMemoryUsed
      # ...
```

#### Table metrics tagging

It is possible to add tags to metrics retrieved from a table in three ways:

- Using an index:

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: CISCO-PROCESS-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1
      name: cpmCPUTotalTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.109.1.1.1.1.12
        name: cpmCPUMemoryUsed
    metric_tags:
      # Add a 'cpu:<row_index>' tag to each metric of each row,
      # whose value is the index of the row in the table.
      # This allows querying metrics for a given CPU unit, e.g. 'cpu:1'.
      - tag: cpu
        index: 1
```

- Using a column within the same table:

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: IF-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2
      name: ifTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.14
        name: ifInErrors
      # ...
    metric_tags:
      # Add an 'interface' tag to each metric of each row,
      # whose value is obtained from the 'ifDescr' column of the row.
      # This allows querying metrics by interface, e.g. 'interface:eth0'.
      - tag: interface
        column:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.2.2.1.2
          name: ifDescr
```

- Using a column from a different table.

```yaml
metrics:
  - MIB: CISCO-IF-EXTENSION-MIB
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.276.1.1.2
      name: cieIfInterfaceTable
    symbols:
      - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.9.9.276.1.1.2.1.1
        name: cieIfResetCount
    metric_tags:
      - MIB: IF-MIB
        column:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.31.1.1.1.1
          name: ifName
        table: ifXTable
        tag: interface
```

!!! note
    General guidelines on [Datadog tagging](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tagging/) also apply to table metric tags.

    In particular, be mindful of the kind of value contained in the columns used a tag sources. E.g. avoid using a `DisplayString` (an arbitrarily long human-readable text description) or unbounded sources (timestamps, IDs...) as tag values.

    Good candidates for tag values include short strings, enums, or integer indexes.

#### Metric type inference

By default, the [Datadog metric type](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/types/?tab=count) of a symbol will be inferred from the SNMP type (i.e. the MIB `SYNTAX`):

| SNMP type             | Inferred metric type |
| --------------------- | -------------------- |
| `Counter32`           | `rate`               |
| `Counter64`           | `rate`               |
| `Gauge32`             | `gauge`              |
| `Integer`             | `gauge`              |
| `Integer32`           | `gauge`              |
| `CounterBasedGauge64` | `gauge`              |
| `Opaque`              | `gauge`              |

SNMP types not listed in this table are submitted as `gauge` by default.

#### Forced metric types

Sometimes the inferred type may not be what you want. Typically, OIDs that represent "total number of X" are defined as `Counter32` in MIBs, but you probably want to submit them `monotonic_count` instead of a `rate`.

For such cases, you can define a `forced_type`. Possible values and their effect are listed below.

| Forced type                | Description                                                                                         |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `gauge`                    | Submit as a gauge.                                                                                  |
| `rate`                     | Submit as a rate.                                                                                   |
| `percent`                  | Multiply by 100 and submit as a rate.                                                               |
| `monotonic_count`          | Submit as a monotonic count.                                                                        |
| `monotonic_count_and_rate` | Submit 2 copies of the metric: one as a monotonic count, and one as a rate (suffixed with `.rate`). |

This works on both symbol and table metrics:

```yaml
metrics:
  # On a symbol:
  - MIB: TCP-MIB
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.6.5
      name: tcpActiveOpens
  # On a table:
  - MIB: IP-MIB
    table:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1
      name: ipSystemStatsTable
    forced_type: monotonic_count
    symbols:
    - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1.1.4
      name: ipSystemStatsHCInReceives
    - OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.4.31.1.1.6
      name: ipSystemStatsHCInOctets
```

!!! note
    When used on a table metrics entry, `forced_type` is applied to _all_ symbols in the entry.

    So, if a table contains symbols of varying types, you should use multiple `metrics` entries: one for symbols with inferred metric types, and one for each `forced_type`.

    For example:

    ```yaml
    metrics:
      - MIB: F5-BIGIP-LOCAL-MIB
        table:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3
          name: ltmPoolStatTable
        # No `forced_type` specified => metric types will be inferred.
        symbols:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.2
            name: ltmPoolStatServerPktsIn
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.4
            name: ltmPoolStatServerPktsOut
          # ...

      - MIB: F5-BIGIP-LOCAL-MIB
        table:
          OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3
          name: ltmPoolStatTable
        forced_type: monotonic_count
        # All these symbols will be submitted as monotonic counts.
        symbols:
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.7
            name: ltmPoolStatServerTotConns
          - OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.3375.2.2.5.2.3.1.23
            name: ltmPoolStatConnqServiced
          # ...
    ```

### `metric_tags`

_(Optional)_

This field is used to apply tags to all metrics collected by the profile. It has the same meaning than the instance-level config option (see [`conf.yaml.example`](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/conf.yaml.example)).

Several collection methods are supported, as illustrated below:

```yaml
metric_tags:
  - # From a symbol
    MIB: SNMPv2-MIB
    symbol: sysName
    tag: snmp_host
  - # From an OID:
    OID: 1.3.6.1.2.1.1.5
    symbol: sysName
    tag: snmp_host
  - # With regular expression matching
    MIB: SNMPv2-MIB
    symbol: sysName
    match: (.*)-(.*)
    tags:
        device_type: \1
        host: \2
```
